# RFP-010: Vector Commitments

## **Background**

A **Vector commitment** (VC), first defined by [Catalano and Fiore](https://eprint.iacr.org/2011/495.pdf), allows one to commit to a sequence of values and later on reveal (open) one or many values at a specific position and prove the opening consistent with the initial commitment. Vector commitments are used to trade off storage (all values in a vector vs. one commitment) for bandwidth (taken up to reveal values and prove them). This means that the commitment and the proofs of opening should have a reduced size.

Known constructions of VC either need some public parameters generated by a trusted setup, or they rely on controversial intractability assumptions. The VC schemes avoiding new assumptions and trust requirements have another drawback: they do not achieve constant-size opening proofs. Ideally, we would like to construct VC schemes that have the minimal public parameters size and that allow opening a committed vector at a set of positions with an opening of size independent of both the vector’s length and the number of opened positions.


## **Problem Statement**

The solutions proposed for this RFP will address our published open problems on [**Vector Commitments with Applications to Proof of Space**](https://github.com/protocol/CryptoNetLab/blob/main/open_problems/Better_Vector_Commitments.md). Please review the problems in detail for requirements and constraints.

## **Scope of this RFP**

The goal of this RFP is to stimulate improvements to the Vector Commitment constructions used in Filecoin and other Web3 protocols. We are funding research that addresses any of the **five Open Problems** listed in the above [**Open Problem
Statement**](https://github.com/protocol/CryptoNetLab/blob/main/open_problems/Better_Vector_Commitments.md):

-   **Problem 1:** Augmented Aggregation for SVC
-   **Problem 2:** Functional Vector Commitments
-   **Problem 3:** Improving Merkle Tree Openings
-   **Problem 4:** Updatability Property for SVC
-   **Problem 5:** Assumptions and Algebraic Settings for VC

Successful applications will include an explicit formulation of the objectives they propose to deliver, a description of the use-cases for which their solution is optimized, and a description of how the performance or correctness of the solution will be demonstrated and evaluated relative to the current state-of-the-art.

Solutions (or impossibility results) should take the form of a scientific paper or technical report. Additional follow-on funding is
available to support the preparation of submissions to open-access journals and conference proceedings, including travel and presentation costs.

## **RFP Details**

### **Application Deadline**

**Rolling:** we will be reviewing applications in batches corresponding to calendar months. The call will close on **August 30, 2021** or earlier if awarded.

### **Recommended team**

We expect the technical depth of the work to be at the level of a researcher in the field or a graduate student. We suggest that a team of one PI and one PhD part-time for 9-12 months or one PI and one postdoctoral researcher part-time for 6-8 months is appropriate for most problems.

Applicants may build a collaborative project with researchers from multiple institutions if desired.

-   **Recommended expertise:** Mathematicians and/or Computer Scientists familiar with Applied Cryptography, Codes, Information Theory, Public Key Cryptography

### **Award**

Up to $50,000 USD per proposal. Possibility of up to 20% paid in FIL.

### **Payout schedule**

60% upon award and 40% on completion (adjustable to accommodate institutional requirements).

### **Point of contact**

**Anca Nitulescu (@ninitrava) and Luca Nizzardo (@lucaniz)**. We encourage you to reach out to **research-grants@protocol.ai** if you are considering applying or have any questions.


### **Applications**

Submit your proposal using our application management system at  https://grants.protocol.ai/.

**Results are to be released as open source under the **[Permissive License Stack](https://protocol.ai/blog/announcing-the-permissive-license-stack/) (Dual License Apache-2 + MIT).**
